---
{
  "title": "",
  "slt": ["102.1"],
  "type": "Lesson",
  "description": "",
  "videoURL": "",
  "lastEdited": "",
  "author": "",
}
---

# Mesh React - SLT 102.1

Student Learning Target: I can set up Mesh Provider so that I can use Mesh React Components and Hooks.

## Learn More About Mesh Providers

In module 100.4 you learned how to integrate Mesh into a new project. Actually, without you realizing it or not, you have implemented the Mesh Provider in the pages/\_app.tsx file. Mesh Provider is a component that uses React context features. Context allow you to share data or state across applications without needing to pass props from component to component. With Mesh Providers, you can provide context that contains the configuration, state, or data needed by the web applications you build. One of the most concrete examples is when a user connects their wallet on the main-page and then the user visits another page the Mesh Provider plays a role in ensuring the wallet is still connected.

This is an example of Mesh Provider implementation code in the pages/\_app.tsx file

```typescript
import "../styles/globals.css";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

## Place CardanoWallet Components In Navbar

In this section, you will learn how to create a Navbar that contains CardanoWallet components. When moving between pages, the Navbar you created will remain in its position and most importantly you will see evidence of the implementation of the MeshProvider which plays a role in ensuring the wallet is still connected. So when you move between pages you will see that the connection status (connected / disconnected) of your wallet will not change.

### Step-1: Install Next.JS Integrated Mesh.JS Using Starter Templates

```bash
npx create-mesh-app navbar-cardanowallet -t starter -s next -l ts
```

In this example we will name the project navbar-cardanowallet

### Step-2: TailwindCSS Installation

```bash
cd navbar-cardanowallet
npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

After the installation process is complete you will see the tailwind.config.js and postcss.config.js files. Open the tailwind.config.js file then delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```javascript
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    "./app/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
    "./pages/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
    "./components/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",

    // Or if using `src` directory:
    "./src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
};
```

After that, open the styles/globals.css file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

### Step-3: Create Navbar and Layout Components

Create a folder called components in the pages directory

```bash
mkdir pages/components
```

Create a file called Navbar.tsx in the components folder

```bash
touch pages/components/Navbar.tsx
```

Open the pages/components/Navbar.tsx file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import Link from "next/link";
import { CardanoWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Navbar() {
  return (
    <div className="flex bg-black text-white p-5 justify-between">
      <div className="flex">
        <Link href="/" className="mr-5 hover:font-bold text-xl">
          Home
        </Link>
        <Link href="/users" className="hover:font-bold text-xl">
          Users
        </Link>
      </div>
      <CardanoWallet />
    </div>
  );
}
```

Create a file called Layout.tsx in the components folder

```bash
touch pages/components/Layout.tsx
```

Open the pages/components/Layout.tsx file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import Navbar from "./Navbar";

export default function Layout({ children }: any) {
  return (
    <>
      <Navbar />
      <main>{children}</main>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Step-4: Add Layout And MeshProvider Component

Open the pages/\_app.tsx file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import "../styles/globals.css";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";
import Layout from "./components/Layout";

export default function App({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Layout>
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </Layout>
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}
```

Step-4 is a quite crucial step because you are implementing the MeshProvider and Layout component that you have created which are both the Mesh Provider and Layout are components that use the React context feature.

### Step-5: Create The Main-Page And Users-Page

Open the pages/index.tsx file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import { useWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Home() {
  const { connected } = useWallet();

  return (
    <div className="p-3">
      <h1 className="text-2xl font-bold">Home Page</h1>
      {!connected ? (
        <p>
          The wallet has been{" "}
          <span className="text-red-500 font-bold">disconnected</span> at
          home-page
        </p>
      ) : (
        <p>
          The wallet has been{" "}
          <span className="text-green-500 font-bold">connected</span> at
          home-page
        </p>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}
```

Create a folder called users in the pages directory

```bash
mkdir pages/users
```

Create a file called index.tsx in the users folder

```bash
touch pages/users/index.tsx
```

Open the pages/users/index.tsx file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import { useWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function UserPage() {
  const { connected } = useWallet();

  return (
    <div className="p-3">
      <h1 className="text-2xl font-bold">User Page</h1>
      {!connected ? (
        <p>
          The wallet has been{" "}
          <span className="text-red-500 font-bold">disconnected</span> at
          user-page
        </p>
      ) : (
        <p>
          The wallet has been{" "}
          <span className="text-green-500 font-bold">connected</span> at
          user-page
        </p>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}
```

You see that the code for the main-page and the users-page looks the same pattern and logic, you can see in the tsx code there is a conditional rendering pattern using the ternary operator with the condition that if connected is false then the page will display text containing the word "disconnected" in red color and Vice versa, if the value of connected is true, the page will display text containing the word "connected" in green color. In this code there is useWallet which is Wallet Hooks. useWallet has various parameters and methods, one of which is used in this time is connected which returns the value true which means the wallet is connected. In the next modules 102.2-102.6, you will learn more about the components of Wallet Hooks.

### Step-6: Run the application on the development server

```bash
npm run dev
```

After that, open a browser, go to the URL http://localhost:3000. You will see the main-page or Home-Page which has a Navbar then in the right corner of the Navbar there is CardanoWallet. Connect your wallet then you will see the words "The wallet has been disconnected at home-page" change to "The wallet has been connected at home-page" then try to switch pages to the User-Page by clicking Users on the Navbar or directing the url Go to http://localhost:3000/users then you will see the word "connected" which is colored green and does not change, which means the wallet remains connected even if you change pages. You can also see that the CardanoWallet component in the right corner of the Navbar has not changed and still shows the nominal balance. You can modify the code examples in this module according to your project ideas. Make modifications and create something different but still apply the same principles as the code example above to practice your skills as a developer.
